manual/settings.md, before:

---
title: "Settings"
description: "There are many settings and parameters that could be used to setup your printer on NanoDLP. Here we go through overview of those settings."
lead: "There are many settings and parameters that could be used to setup your printer on NanoDLP. Here we go through overview of those settings."
draft: false
images: []
toc: true
---
## Overview

There are two pages which you could access majority of the NanoDLP configurations.

### Machine settings

Containing general parameters indicate how your printer should works.

### Profile settings

You can define multiple print profile which could be used to adjust printer settings based on resin and other materials currently you are using. Some parameters on profile level could override machine level settings.

## Signs

There are some signs on NanoDLP to guide you through NanoDLP.

### Help ℹ

Link to on-screen or document containing help on those settings.

### Caution 🔥

These settings seems innocent but there are many kind of issues could be caused by wrong parameters here. It is better to not relay on them.

### Formula ∑

On-screen formula calculators help you see how changes on these inputs impact your prints.

### Regenerate ⟲

Change to the majority of NanoDLP options will be applied on-fly, that means you can change parameter during printing and see the result of those changes. But some parameters require re-slicing of the plate and would not applied during printing and will require plate regeneration.

## More

* [Speed]({{<ref "speed">}})
* [Display Calibration]({{<ref "display-calibration">}})

Commit message:

Add printer type to setting page

manual/settings.md, after:

---
title: "Settings"
description: "There are many settings and parameters that could be used to setup your printer on NanoDLP. Here we go through overview of those settings."
lead: "There are many settings and parameters that could be used to setup your printer on NanoDLP. Here we go through overview of those settings."
draft: false
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "manual"
images: []
toc: true
---
## Overview

There are two pages which you could access majority of the NanoDLP configurations.

### Machine settings

Containing general parameters indicate how your printer should works.

### Profile settings

You can define multiple print profile which could be used to adjust printer settings based on resin and other materials currently you are using. Some parameters on profile level could override machine level settings.

## Signs

There are some signs on NanoDLP to guide you through NanoDLP.

### Help ℹ

Link to on-screen or document containing help on those settings.

### Caution 🔥

These settings seems innocent but there are many kind of issues could be caused by wrong parameters here. It is better to not relay on them.

### Formula ∑

On-screen formula calculators help you see how changes on these inputs impact your prints.

### Regenerate ⟲

Change to the majority of NanoDLP options will be applied on-fly, that means you can change parameter during printing and see the result of those changes. But some parameters require re-slicing of the plate and would not applied during printing and will require plate regeneration.

## Printer Type
NanoDLP supports different printer types and each one does have different properties and behavior. 

### Projector LCD
This the default printer type. It is the only printer type support direct control. All fields behave as expected for shield control.

### Laser
If you are using galvo laser type printer for SLA or SLS, this is the printer type you need to choose. In addition to usual "Projector LCD" type printers, instead of curing layer it generate gcode for shield in order to move laser source in x/y plane.

### Non-Stop LCD Printer
On this mode, only before and layer curing actions happen and after layer skipped. The most of actions for this printer type being run in parallel to speedup printing.

### UV LED Printer
Instead of relaying on NanoDLP to control cure time, shield need to control cure time. Layers being displayed at the start of each layer, but it expected printer to cure layer just after UV LED on. It is suitable for fast high resolution printers (8k+).

```
[[MoveCounterSet 0]]
G1 Z1; Move to layer
M104; UV LED On
G4 P1400; Cure layer
M105; UV LED Off
[[MoveWait 2]]; Both G1 and G2 returns Z_move_comp
```

## More

* [Speed]({{<ref "speed">}})
* [Display Calibration]({{<ref "display-calibration">}})
