guide/controller-board.md, before:

---
title: "NanoDLP Controller Board"
description: "NanoDLP controller board advanced features"
lead: ""
draft: false
images: []
menu: 
  docs:
    parent: "guide"
toc: true
---

This guide will go through more advanced features of the NanoDLP controller board. For the basic guide, checkout [NanoDLP controller board](https://www.nanodlp.com/nanodlp-controller-board/) page.

## Change micro-stepping

To change you need to modify both jumpers on the controller board and also NanoDLP settings.

### Micro-stepping jumpers

You can find micro-stepping jumpers on top left of the board.

<img src="https://www.nanodlp.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Stepper-Motor-Driver-1.png" width="80%" alt="NanoDLP Micro-stepping">

Based on table below you need to adjust jumpers.

| M0     | M1     | Step |
|--------|--------|------|
| GND    | GND    | 8    |
| VCC_IO | GND    | 32   |
| GND    | VCC_IO | 64   |
| VCC_IO | VCC_IO | 16   |

### Change Micro-stepping

On the NanoDLP machine settings section (boot-up and start gcode inputs), you can find ``M92 Z3200`` which indicate micro-stepping and your axis pitch on Marlin. You need to update value accordingly.

## End switch / End limit

Default NanoDLP controller board support NPN and not PNP, using PNP require firmware change to do so you need to change Marlin config file before compiling that.

## Z-Axis height

Early NanoDLP controller board firmware limit Z-Axis height to 200mm on more recent one limit is 500mm. Modifying this limit require firmware flash/change.

Commit message:

Add NanoDLP shield section to the controller page

guide/controller-board.md, after:

---
title: "NanoDLP Controller Board"
description: "NanoDLP controller board advanced features"
lead: ""
draft: false
images: []
menu: 
  docs:
    parent: "guide"
toc: true
---

This guide will go through more advanced features of the NanoDLP controller board. For the basic guide, checkout [NanoDLP controller board](https://www.nanodlp.com/nanodlp-controller-board/) page.

## Change micro-stepping

To change you need to modify both jumpers on the controller board and also NanoDLP settings.

### Micro-stepping jumpers

You can find micro-stepping jumpers on top left of the board.

<img src="https://www.nanodlp.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Stepper-Motor-Driver-1.png" width="80%" alt="NanoDLP Micro-stepping">

Based on table below you need to adjust jumpers.

| M0     | M1     | Step |
|--------|--------|------|
| GND    | GND    | 8    |
| VCC_IO | GND    | 32   |
| GND    | VCC_IO | 64   |
| VCC_IO | VCC_IO | 16   |

### NanoDLP settings

On the NanoDLP machine settings section (boot-up and start gcode inputs), you can find ``M92 Z3200`` which indicate micro-stepping and your axis pitch on Marlin. You need to update value accordingly.

## End switch / End limit

Default NanoDLP controller board support NPN and not PNP, using PNP require firmware change to do so you need to change Marlin config file before compiling that.

## Z-Axis height

Early NanoDLP controller board firmware limit Z-Axis height to 200mm on more recent one limit is 500mm. Modifying this limit require firmware flash/change.

## NanoDLP Shield 

These are unofficial controller boards based on early NanoDLP hardware design, use of these board are not suggested due to short comes.
